# Why and when to use Kubernetes

Imagine building a cloud service that is running on multiple servers. Inside these servers are Docker containers that contain integral parts of the service you are providing. The reasoning behind splitting containers on multiple hosts instead of just having one server run all the containers can wary: Having backup hosts in case one server crashes, having hardware intensive code that makes it impossible to have a smooth experience with just one server and so forth. In any case you most likely want these containers to interact with each other in an organized way. Interaction between containers that have the same host is simple and can be dealt with by using Docker networks. But interaction between containers on different hosts is a trickier problem. Luckily Kubernetes has your back.

Kubernetes groups Docker containers running on a same host into a “Pod”. Each Pod has an individual Pod IP Address. Using Pod IP addresses to communicate between containers on different Pods is not advised, since the addresses can change. That is where the Kubernetes Services come in to play. Pods can be grouped to form a Kubernetes Service. Communication between Pods that belong to different Services is done via service discovery. Each Service has an individual stable IP address and DNS name that can be used to establish communication.

The things I have mentioned here are just the tip of the iceberg. Kubernetes is more complex than some of its counterparts and as such, it might not be worth it to use Kubernetes in a smaller project. For smaller projects, services like Docker swarm are more suitable.
